hey guys welcome to lingo marina there
are a lot of words
in the english language that have
written in a very similar way
that are pronounced in a kind of similar
way
but have completely different meanings
so today we're gonna go through those
pairs of words and we're gonna talk
about what they mean and i'm gonna teach
you how to
not confuse them so if you've been
confusing words before and if you're
interested in this topic
please continue watching this video but
before we start please don't forget to
hit the like button for the youtube
algorithm and don't forget to subscribe
to this channel
to stay up to date with my english
language classes
pair number one staff versus stuff
so first of all staff can be both noun
and a verb
staff as a noun means a group of
assistants
a group of workers working together so
for example
we have a lot of staff in the office
today that day is really busy
or our hr department cares about the
staff
staff meeting everybody staff meeting
as a verb it means to provide someone
with a staff
so for example i just started a company
and i need
to staff it it means i need to hire
people
because i want some people to work for
me no i've heard that you're trying to
staff up
on the other side we have stuff so in
terms of pronunciation
staff is like if you pronounce it in a
very american way then it's
staff stuff is different stuff is both
in british both american
is very very short so stuff stuff is
basically
things i have a lot of stuff in my
wardrobe i don't have
any space left so this stuff or if you
see a substance and you don't know how
to describe
it you can say oh my god there is sticky
stuff all over the floor
what's the stuff with my plate stuff can
also be a verb
and as a verb it means to put something
somewhere
very quickly the boy stuffed his bag
with candies
so he did it really quickly he put a
little candy in his bag and ran away
to stuff something that was stuff an
envelope the second pair is
desert versus dessert
so desert again can be a noun and a verb
desert is a huge space of dry land
the sahara desert is huge i'm walking
into the desert as a verb it means to
leave
someone or something in a difficult
situation people
deserted the town after the flood
and here you see the stress goes on to
the second part of the word
now we have dessert as a noun dessert is
something you have when you
finish dinner and you have something
sweet like an ice cream
so what's for dessert and dessert can
only be a noun
please pay attention to the way it is
spelled because to dessert
kind of sounds similar but has a
different meaning vocation
versus vacation vocation is basically a
profession that you have
vocation is a type of work that you feel
you're meant to do she has a vocation
for teaching means she
is a teacher and she loves it you see we
shared a vocation
you've probably heard that there are
some vocational schools in the u.s
so that means that it's like a school
that lasts for maybe a year maybe a
couple years
where you go deep into one of the
professions that you like
on the other side we have vacation
vacation means time
that you take off work when you travel
when you relax
the example i've been working so hard
this year
i really need my vacation best
vacation ever envelop versus
envelope to envelop it's a verb
means to cover something completely
san francisco was enveloped with smog
this summer
because there were a lot of fires and
the small completely flooded the city
the city was wrapped up with smog
we finally found a dress that could
envelop your mother
the word envelope is a noun it refers to
a piece of paper
with a syllable flap so basically you
put something inside of it
you seal it and you send it you use
envelopes for sending postcards use
envelopes for sending letters and i
found this envelope
principle versus principle
sounds like exactly the same word but
they are written in a different way so
pay attention here
principle can be an adjective and it
means the most important
what is the principal reason for you to
do this what is the main reason for you
to do this
principle rules are no talking principle
can also be a noun
it means the head of a school or college
our school principal
is a very kind woman i spoke to your
principal
principal pay attention to the spelling
is always a noun it means a rule
or a theory how something works good
client service is one of our principles
the basic principle is stationary
versus stationary again sounds
very similar but the spelling is
different
and their meanings are different
stationary
is a noun and it means things you need
for writing
like paper pencils pens
crayons whatever stationary for example
i need to go to a stationery store to
get some paper
something along the stationary line are
you short of state please
stationary is an adjective it means
something
is standing still and not moving
the mother ordered her son to remain
stationary
while she ran and grabbed some bread
some synonyms are
motionless immobilized those were
stationary bikes
beside versus the sides
beside is a preposition meaning next to
something for example i lived in a house
beside a river
right beside you besides can be an
adverb and a preposition as an adverb it
means
in addition to also as an adverb it can
serve as an introduction to a sentence
but if you use it in this way don't
forget to put a comma after it
besides do you want to go to a party
after this
it's like by the way do you want to go
to a party after this
i don't want to go to a party besides
it's getting late
again don't forget a comma after besides
besides
nobody's getting hurt as if you want to
use besides a preposition then the
meaning would be slightly different
it would mean apart from so for example
what do you enjoy doing besides making
videos for youtube something besides
noodles
personal versus personnel personal is an
adjective means something's really
private
please don't ask me this question it's
really personal personal taste
means people who work for a company this
company has a lot of personnel
i think they have around a thousand
employees so employees personnel are
synonyms
you're exempted we're non-essential
personnel quite
versus quiet so quiet
is something you know right quiet
is an adjective means it's not very loud
i live on a quiet street we don't get a
lot of cars
we don't have a lot of neighbors i enjoy
living
in a quiet village really small
nothing's happening quiet please quite
is an adverb it can mean to a large
degree
or truly let me give you some examples
to understand this word
there were quite a few people ahead of
us
pay attention to the spelling that means
there were a lot of people
ahead of us quite a few means a lot
quite the opposite
i am quite sure you can make it here
the synonym would be very pretty
completely i'm completely sure you can
make it i'm quite sure
you can make it quite sure sensible
versus sensitive both are adjectives
sensible means based on
good understanding of a situation so for
example
it was sensible of her to stop driving
when she realized she's really tired
the synonym here can be smart clever it
was really smart of her
to stop when she felt that she was tired
because it was dangerous
to continue driving kids we have to be
sensible
sensitive is an adjective and it can
have several meanings
first of all it means that you have a
lot of feelings like
whenever something happens you really
react to it you feel either upset or
happy
because you're really sensitive you feel
a lot of things my
best friend is a deeply sensitive man
that means whatever happens
he would react you sensitive brother
sometimes you can hear people say
oh you're so sensitive means it's so
easy to upset you like babies can be
really sensitive
whatever you do they start crying you
know babies are sensitive to all kinds
of things
also sensitive can mean something that's
easily influenced my teeth are quite
sensitive
whenever i drink something cold i feel
the pain
the synonyms here can be responsive
fragile
you know jonathan is sensitive to loud
noise thank you guys so much for
watching this video up to the very end
the topic that we covered today
is really closer to advanced if you're
intermediate and you're
like oh my god there are so many words
that sound similar
i haven't even gone through the whole
list so just don't be afraid you know
just remember them
and if you want to work more on your
english please feel free to join my
course intermediate to advanced i
created it together with a teacher
called vina he's from los angeles
we sat down together created a program
recorded this course for you
after every class you will have tests so
you'll be able to practice information
that you've learned
and in 30 days we're going to cover some
very important topics
that will help you get to the advanced
level in english
thank you guys so much for watching this
video up to the very end
the link to the course will be below and
i will see you very soon in my next
videos
bye-bye